Announcement banner: Add docs (#89455)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/administration/announcement-banner/_index.md

---

> draft: true

Author: We'd like to keep this in draft until the feature is released.

aliases:
  - ../administration/reports/
  - ../enterprise/export-pdf/
  - ../enterprise/reporting/
  - ../panels/create-reports/
  - reporting/
keywords:
  - grafana
  - announcement
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
menuTitle: Announcement banner
title: Create and configure announcement banner
description: Creat a banner to show important updates and information at the top of on every page
refs:
  rbac:
    - pattern: /docs/grafana/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/administration/roles-and-permissions/access-control/
    - pattern: /docs/grafana-cloud/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/administration/roles-and-permissions/access-control/
---

# Create and configure announcement banner

Announcement banner allows you to show important updates and information at the top of every page in Grafana. You can use the announcement banner to communicate important information to your users, such as maintenance windows, new features, or other important updates.

## Create or update an announcement banner

> Only organization administrators can create announcement banner by default. You can customize who can create announcement banner with [Role-based access control](ref:rbac).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, only organization administrators can create announcement banners.
You can customize who can create announcement banners with [Role-based access control](docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/administration/roles-and-permissions/access-control/).
```

To create or update an announcement banner, follow these steps:

1. Click **Administration > General > Announcement banner** in the side navigation menu.

>    The Announcement banner page allows you to view, create and update the settings for a notification banner. Only one banner can be created at a time.

Reviewer: UI elements and pages in bold https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/style-guide/style-conventions/#bold.
Consistently use announcement banner instead of notification banner.
```suggestion
   The **Announcement banner** page allows you to view, create, and update the settings for an announcement banner.
   Only one banner can be active at a time.

> 2. Toggle the **Enable** switch on to enable the announcement banner. It can be toggled off at any time to disable the banner.
> 
> 3. Enter the **Message** for the announcement banner.
> 
>    The message field supports Markdown. To add a header, use the following syntax:
> 
>    ```markdown
>    ### Header
>    ```
> 
>    To add a link, use the following syntax:
> 
>    ```markdown
>    [link text](https://www.example.com)
>    ```
> 
>    The preview of the configured banner will appear on top of the form, under the **Preview** section.
> 
> 4. Select the banner's start date and time in the **Starts** field.
> 
>    By default, the banner starts being displayed immediately. You can set a future date and time for the banner to start displaying.
> 
> 5. Select the banner's end date and time in the **Ends** field.
> 
>    By default, the banner is displayed indefinitely. You can set a future date and time for the banner to stop displaying.
> 
> 6. Select the banner's visibility.
> 
>    **Everyone** - The banner is visible to all users, including on login page.
> 
>    **Authenticated users** - The banner is visible to only authenticated users.
> 
> 7. Select the type of banner in the **Variant** field.
> 
>    This will determine the color of the banner's background.
> 
> 8. Click **Save** to save the banner settings.
> 
>    The banner will now be displayed at the top of every page in Grafana.

Reviewer: Using repetitive number makes it easier to insert steps in the future.
I've changed some passive voice and clarified some information.

````suggestion
1. Toggle the **Enable** switch on to enable the announcement banner.
   You can disable the banner at any time with this toggle.

1. Enter the **Message** for the announcement banner.

   The message field supports Markdown. To add a header, use the following syntax:

   ```markdown
   ### Header
   ```

   To add a link, use the following syntax:

   ```markdown
   [link text](https://www.example.com)
   ```

   The preview of the configured banner appears on top of the form, under the **Preview** section.

1. Select the banner's start date and time in the **Starts** field.

   By default, the banner starts being displayed immediately.
   You can set a future date and time for the banner to start displaying.

1. Select the banner's end date and time in the **Ends** field.

   By default, the banner is displayed indefinitely.
   You can set a date and time for the banner to stop displaying.

1. Select the banner's visibility.

   **Everyone** - The banner is visible to all users, including on login page.

   **Authenticated users** - The banner is visible to only authenticated users.

1. Select the type of banner in the **Variant** field.

   This determines the color of the banner's background.

1. Click **Save** to save the banner settings.

   The banner displays at the top of every page in Grafana between the start and end dates.
````
